[child breathing heavily]
[panting]
[chuckles]
[gasps]
[grunts]
[child groans]
[winces]
[whimpers]
[gasps, grunts]
[woman] Kanna?
[Kanna] Mom.
Are you okay?
Yeah. I'm just fine, thanks.
Do you want to take a break?
No! I said I'm fine!
You're right. I'm sorry.
So, you can still run then?
Yeah.
We're still a long way off from the goal.
And besides,
I haven't given 100% yet today.
You really hate giving up.
[laughs] I wonder where you got that from.
[giggles]
Okay. Let's do this then.
Now, on your marks, get set--
-Go! [chuckles]
-Uh, Kanna.
Oh, come on. That all you got?
♪ Hurry, little monster
Catch me if you think you can ♪
[grunts]
[gasps]
[chuckles]
Look at you. Why the smile?
[Kanna grunts]
Hey, Mom?
Wait!
Hey!
Mom, don't leave me!
GODS
NO GODS
[teacher] Kanna month.
Uh-huh? [grunts]
Uh, yes?
Uh, no?
[students laughing]
-Ah, Hayama. Glad you've rejoined us.
-[Kanna] I'm sorry.
My classes aren't that boring, are they?
-Uh, kinda. Yeah.
-[students laugh]
I'll work on it.
Now where was I?
Uh, September is Nagatsuki…
We're on page 125.
-…and October is Kanna month.
-[chuckles]
-[boy] Kanna month?
-Huh?
Well, my grandma always calls it
by a different name.
Ah, it is called something else
in the Izumo region.
Out there…
it's Kamiari month instead.
GODS
Kamiari month. Huh.
According to Izumo legend,
the countless gods from all across Japan
have an annual gathering
at Izumo Taisha Shrine.
There they hold a weeklong
matchmaking conference
known as the Kamihakari.
Though I guess nowadays
you might consider it
more of a summit
for determining peoples' fate.
[girl] A summit? What is that?
-Tangent time.
-Yeah.
[teacher] The Kamihakari
always takes place
in October on the lunar calendar.
The gods disappear from their places
all over Japan,
hence the name Kanna month
or the month without gods.
Unless you're in Izumo
and then all the gods converge
on your hometown.
They're all right there at the same time.
So even though it's the same month,
out there it's referred to
as Kamiari month
or the month with gods.
-Makes sense to everybody?
-[students muttering]
[man] Get set…
[students chattering]
Why are the boys in our class so slow?
-For real.
-[both laugh]
Better tighten up that form
or you're never gonna make it to the end.
Isn't all this practice
just wasting our energy?
Yeah. They'll be lucky
if we can run the marathon at all.
Ah! Especially 'cause a typhoon might hit.
-[coach] Next fours group will be…
-Really? Then let's make sure it does.
-Maekawa, Miyoshi…
-Oh, that's me.
-♪ Oh, rain, pour down, pour, rain ♪
-Kitagawa and Yuki.
[sighs, grunts]
How come boys are so stupid?
[giggles]
Like, grow up already.
Oh. Are you okay?
Earth to Kanna.
Uh… [chuckles]
I was actually thinking praying for rain
might not be a bad idea. [laughs]
-You what?
-Oh, cloudy skies,
-You weirdo!
-rain down upon us!
[coach] All right. Next up is…
-[groans]
-girls group one.
That's Yamamoto, Ogawa, Iyama, Moriyama.
Where'd Ogawa go? Hey, Ogawa.
[Ogawa] Coming!
[coach] On your mark…
-get set…
-Uh, sir?
What's wrong?
I think I pulled a muscle.
-[girl] Are you okay?
-Yeah. I just should have stretched more.
I'll head over to the nurse.
-Will you check on her?
-[students laugh]
Kanna, do you want me to go with you?
I'm fine. Don't you worry about me.
[coach] All right, all right.
Back on your marks.
[woman on PA]
It's five o'clock, students.
Those of you still on school grounds
please make your way home safely
and we'll see you tomorrow.
[Kanna] Shiro, come here.
Shiro.
[sighs] Look at you.
Carefree, no schedule.
[chuckles] Lucky duck.
Shiro,
I lied about something stupid again.
[groans]
[sighs]
[boy] All right, guys,
whoever gets to my place first
gets to choose what game we play.
BUNNY HOUSE
-You're on!
-[chuckles]
-Truth is, I don't want to run anymore.
-[rumbling]
[girl] Kanna?
-[rumbling stops]
-[gasps]
Let's go home.
Coming.
See you later.
[gate opens]
[girl] Nurse's office, huh?
[Kanna] I know, I know.
You really like those rabbits, don't you?
-They're adorable.
-So I guess your leg's okay now?
BUNNY HOUSE
Uh, it still feels a little stiff,
but yeah.
[girl laughs]
[both] Bye!
I'll see you tomorrow.
[chattering, laughing]
[pigeons cooing]
[laughing]
USHIJIMA SHRINE
[exhales] Pigeons are freaky.
-Hey, Kanna…
-Huh?
In case no one's said it yet,
don't feel like you have to do
the marathon.
Hey, I didn't hurt myself that bad.
That's not what I mean.
It's only been a year since your mom
so I'm sure the teachers would be--
Nah, it's fine.
Besides, my dad is really excited
to come watch me run,
so I don't really have a choice.
Are you sure?
Not to mention our class
won't stand a chance otherwise.
Not like we can count on the boys
to win it for us.
[chuckles] Yeah, you're right.
So let's head home and rest up.
Zenzai first. My treat, okay?
That sounds good.
-[buzzing]
-Huh?
Aw. My mom just said
I need to get home as soon as I can.
Oh, no worries.
-Sorry, Kanna. I feel bad.
-It's fine.
[Kanna] I have stuff I gotta do too.
Well, I'll see you tomorrow then.
Yeah. Bye!
[chuckles]
Airing time, I guess.
[bottle clatters]
[grunts] Oh, I'm so--
[groans, gasps]
[groans]
[chattering]
PARK FRONT APARTMENTS
So then Ann got really mad.
[exhales] Oh, no. And then what?
Our teacher told Tai she had to say sorry.
[woman] Oh, goodness.
[girl] Hey, Mom,
what are we having for dinner?
[woman] Let's see. How about curry?
[girl] We just had curry.
I want something else.
[elevator bell dings]
Bye-bye.
Uh, see ya.
[door opens, closes]
[sighs]
KANNA'S MARATHON
[exhales]
[groans]
HONORABLE MENTION - MARATHON
KANNA HAYAMA
[soft rumbling]
[liquid bubbling]
-[bubbling stops]
-[man] I'm home.
What's wrong?
Why are you sitting in the dark?
Hi, Dad. It's nothing.
I've only been back a couple minutes.
Uh, I see.
-Kanna.
-Yeah?
Got you something, for your next marathon.
You didn't have to, but thank you.
-[Kanna] Uh…
-Do you like 'em?
Yeah, but they're a bit too small.
I actually wear a size 5 now.
Oh.
That's right. [laughs]
Well, I messed that up. I'm so sorry.
Size 5. Size 5.
-If you want, I'll--
-It's okay.
I'll just wear my normal ones.
-Hey, Kanna?
-Hmm?
Not to bug you.
Are you sure you want to run next week?
Dad, I'll be fine.
I'm gonna go get dinner started.
[sighs]
Miss you.
[students chattering]
SCHOOL MARATHON
So much for your stupid rain prayer, huh?
Yeah, how did that go again?
-It was "Please rain!"
-[laughing]
-The boys have so much energy.
-Yeah.
[gasps] Guess who? [chuckles]
-Miki.
-How you feelin'?
Pretty good actually.
-Good morning, Kanna.
-Good morning.
Ah, you must be Miki's mother.
Thanks for taking such good care of Kanna.
Oh, goodness, it's no trouble at all.
-She raved about your baking--
-Okay, that's enough, Dad.
-Well, isn't that sweet of her.
-[groans] Let's go.
Your dad is so funny in real life.
Sure. That's one word for it.
[chuckles]
He's so embarrassing.
[man] Uh, hello, everyone.
We appreciate your attendance this morning
despite the rapid gloomy weather.
[chattering]
-[girl] Should we really stand back here?
-[Miki] Yeah, it'll be fine.
-If we do our best we can't lose.
-Mmm.
-[whimpers]
-[coach] All right, everyone.
On your marks…
get set…
-[starting pistol fires]
-[crowd cheering]
Kanna, let's go.
[breathing heavily]
[crowd chattering]
Kanna will be just fine out there.
Yeah, she will.
Ah. We may have our winners.
[crowd shouting, cheering]
Hey. Miki, she's so fast.
-I think I see Kanna too.
-Huh?
[shouting, cheering continues]
Look at her.
She's making her way up front.
Kanna!
[breathing heavily]
-[panting]
-Are you okay?
Yeah, I'm great!
-[father] Kanna!
-[mother] You got this!
-[Kanna breathing heavily]
-Keep it up. Let's go.
I'm proud of you.
Kanna, keep it up!
[panting]
[breathing heavily, gasping]
-[crowd gasps]
-Kanna!
-[laughs] What?
Kanna?
You're okay. Take it easy.
Don't force yourself. Just breathe.
[Kanna breathes heavily, sobs]
I know. I'm fine.
You did amazing.
And you know what your mom would say?
It's not about who wins.
Just make it to the finish line.
-How can you say that to me?
-Huh?
Don't try to make me feel better.
You don't understand, so just back off!
-[grunts] Kanna!
-[breathing heavily]
What's the matter? [grunts]
-Wait!
-[Kanna crying]
-[children shouting]
-Kanna, please come back!
Hey!
-[Kanna sobbing, breathing heavily]
-Kanna?
Kanna!
[breathing heavily] Kanna!
Come on. Let's get you all back inside.
Hey, where are you going?
Kanna!
[breathing heavily]
[grunts]
[groans, pants]
[gasps] Mom!
[whimpers]
[groans]
[sobs] She's not there.
Mom!
I miss you. [sobs]
[silence]
What?
[stammers] What's going on?
Oh, I'm sorr-- [yells]
[mooing]
[groans, gasps]
-[moos]
-[screams]
If you please. Leave this one to me.
Uh, thanks for that.
[gasps]
Hey, is that Yayoi's amulet?
Huh? Hang on. How do you know my mom?
-And who are you?
-You need not know who I am, girl.
Now, human, remove Yayoi's amulet at once.
Huh? Amu-what?
[grunts] Take off that bracelet!
[gasps] You're a demon?
-[both grunting]
-Go away!
-[screams]
-I said take it off!
[demon gasps, grunts]
Shiro?
-Demon, begone.
-Did you just talk?
Don't you dare take off that bracelet!
[demon groans] I knew you'd come.
But you know as well as I do
the title of idaten belongs to me!
Not a chance!
This girl is Yayoi's daughter.
That doesn't mean she can replace her!
[grunts]
No matter.
She'll mess this up soon enough.
[Kanna exhales]
Excuse me, but you are Shiro, right?
How do you know my mom?
Well, I never actually got to meet her,
but I'm here
because I'm an assistant to the gods
and your mother used to be an idaten.
What is an idaten?
A deity. I guess the simplest way
to put it is the god of footrace.
[gasps] My mom was a god?
To be precise
she was a descendant of gods.
And that boy was a descendant of demons
who see the idaten as their enemies.
But don't worry.
I'll keep you safe from anyone
who tries to do you harm.
And if there's anything you want to know
don't hesitate to ask.
[Kanna] Okay, so you're not Shiro then.
Not exactly.
I didn't expect to be here today.
But when you put on that bracelet,
I decided to borrow Shiro's body
for a while.
[Kanna] What do you mean?
[Shiro]
That's no ordinary piece of jewelry.
It's an idaten's amulet.
Whoever wears it is named the successor.
So I was summoned
when its power activated.
So for my whole life
my mom was a god of footrace.
What other stuff can you tell me?
I'm still a rookie myself
so I don't know much about Yayoi,
but I'm sure glad I was able to find you.
And listen, we can talk more
on the way, all right?
We have to get you to Izumo
to fulfill your role.
-[strains]
-Uh, wait a second. Fulfill my role?
Yeah, as idaten.
It's your duty to gather chiso
for the gods
from a bunch of different shrines.
And it all has to be delivered to a feast
at Izumo Taisha Shrine by tonight.
There's not much time, so let's go!
Deliver?
Like tonight tonight?
Izumo is in Shimane.
How are we gonna get there?
With that amulet of yours, of course.
Take a look around.
What do you see?
[grunts]
Huh? [gasps]
It's moving, just really slow.
Yep. Whenever an idaten descendant
puts on that amulet,
time and space will warp around them
to let them complete their job.
[Kanna] Whoa.
[Shiro] This moment may not be frozen,
but as long as you wear that bracelet
you'll be able to move so fast
that ordinary humans won't see you at all.
The fact that I get to come along
is just an added bonus.
Cool, huh?
[Kanna] Yeah.
[Shiro] So when I say we have to
make it to Izumo by tonight,
try not to think about it
in terms of regular human time.
'Cause for us
it's gonna feel like way longer.
Okay. How long?
This isn't a perfect example,
but one regular hour in the human world
could feel like one whole week to us.
-[gasps] A whole week?
-Yep.
So if we head out now,
we ought to make it right on time.
Okay. That makes more sense.
So, should we take a bus?
Or maybe the bullet train?
No. You should run, with your legs.
We're running to Izumo?
Well, yeah. God of footrace, remember?
[sighs] Yeah.
No. This is all too crazy.
But it's all too true.
And if we don't make it
to the festival on time
it'll mess up the Kamihakari tomorrow
and the consequences of that
could be dire.
Kamihakari? What was that thing for again?
This is a huge responsibility,
so let's get a move on.
It's all so hugely impossible,
you realize?
Really? Why?
What do you mean why?
Running, to Izumo.
It's too far even with powers.
Also, running isn't really my…
Huh.
[giggles]
Aren't you the slightest bit curious
how your mother felt
-when she was idaten?
-Huh?
If you travel to Izumo
just like your mother did
as the idaten before you,
you'll get to see all the same sights
and experience all the same experiences.
It's an amazing way to see her again,
you know?
Wait a sec. That's right.
It's a festival where gods gather.
So then my mom might be there too.
-Oh, my gosh.
-Uh, whoa.
-The legend does say…
-I get to see my mom again!
-that in the kingdom of gods…
-I can't believe it!
there is a place that connects this world
to the afterlife--
-Shiro, tell me honestly.
-What.
Did you mean it?
-[whines]
-If I do this, if I go with you,
I'll get to see my mom again?
I guess if it's fated to.
What are we waiting for?
Tell me what I need to do first.
[sighs]
PARK FRONT APARTMENTS
DOUGHNUTS - NOODLES
[Shiro] So, the role of an idaten
is to gather autumn's blessings
from shrines all around the country.
That's what we call the chiso.
Then you must deliver that chiso
to the Izumo Taisha Shrine
where the gods gather.
-And chiso is?
-It's just food.
But really big food. You know, for gods.
So it's not just running.
We have to gather food too?
Yep. We'll be running from place to place
for the autumn harvest.
That's where the word chiso comes from.
Now, let's talk about the whys
and the wherefores.
Every October on the lunar calendar,
sometimes called Kamiari month,
gods from all across Japan travel to Izumo
to attend a big feast
and matchmaking conference
called the Kamihakari.
But in order to keep the world safe
from calamity,
some gods are bound to stay home
and protect their people.
-Those are the caretaking gods.
-[wind whooshes]
Our job is to receive the sacred chiso
from the caretaking gods,
then deliver them to the many gods
in Izumo.
But that must be done before
the Kamihakari welcoming festival.
As I've said before
that festival is tonight,
So it's very important
that we be there on time.
Okay. That all makes sense.
What time is it supposed to start?
The same time it starts every year,
of course.
Exactly seven o'clock p.m.
No. It's really that soon?
Oh. We only have a few hours.
Oh, wait. That's right.
Yeah, it may take a while
to figure out the flow of time,
so until you adjust
I'll act as your clock.
-Sure, if you're cool with it.
-Course I am.
I guess you can think of me
as the timekeeper, like in marathons.
All that said, it would be
my considerable pleasure
to guide you to Izumo, my lady.
Sure. I mean, yes, if you would.
[laughs]
[Kanna, Shiro laughing]
[gasps]
Dad.
He's out looking for me.
He must be so worried.
Hey, what's wrong?
-Hurry. We gotta go.
-[Kanna] Yeah.
Don't catch a cold.
I gotta go. I'm going to see Mom.
Oh.
-Could you keep moving?
-Uh-huh.
Huh?
-A gourd?
-Hmm?
[sighs] It's nothing.
So, how exactly are we supposed to gather
this chiso and where do we even start?
Aha, good question. We should go back
to that shrine from earlier.
[gasps] No way!
We have to see that monster again?
Hey, he's not a monster. He's a god.
May I request an audience
with the god of this shrine?
[groans]
We have come to humbly receive your chiso
to deliver to the Izumo feast.
[throat gurgles]
[grunts] Oh. Huh?
The chiso is a rice cake?
Yep. And every god we go to meet
will give us something different.
It'll always be something special
to that god or the land they protect.
Oh.
You know how you eat rice cakes
for good luck?
This guy provides wards against evil.
I didn't realize
that's what the shrine was for.
[Shiro] Mm-hmm.
There are gods for weather, entertainment.
If you can believe it
there are even gods of toilets.
All the gods in this country provide
some kind of special benefit to humanity.
I didn't know that.
And I've been here so often.
I just never thought about
what this place needs.
-Hmm?
-[moos]
Oh, really? You don't say. [giggles]
What'd he say?
He said he knows you.
He's basically been able
to watch you grow up.
And once he noticed
you came here alone to cry.
I don't remember anything like that.
-Um…
-[moos]
Sorry I never talked to you.
I'll be back.
-[bellows]
-[grunts]
[Shiro] He said if you get tired
of running you can always walk.
[chuckles]
Thank you, sir. We'll be off.
Uh, what do I do with this?
Oh, sorry. Here.
Huh?
Awesome. It's like magic.
Yep. That's the power of the gods.
With this gourd we'll be able
to carry lots of chiso,
and it's practically indestructible.
So it'll all be safe in there.
Wow.
But we must still be careful.
There are those who would try
to steal the gourd from us.
Oh, like that demon from earlier.
[no audible dialogue]
His name is Yasha.
It's kind of a long story,
but his bloodline actually bears
an ancient grudge against the idaten.
A grudge?
Just remember that you must
keep that gourd on you at all times
to ensure it isn't stolen.
Okay.
But I will keep an eye on it too,
of course.
-Just in case.
-Hmm.
So, shall we be off?
Yep. Let's move out.
USHIJIMA SHRINE
-Whoa. Huh?
-[Shiro] Come on.
I know time is moving slowly,
but if we get distracted by every
little thing, it'll be dark in no time.
It's just getting to explore
and enjoy the city like this
feels like the most amazing dream.
[Shiro] I know.
So, hey, this trip might be pretty fun.
Maybe,
but you shouldn't let your guard down.
-Yeah, I know.
-Good. You better.
ATAGO SHRINE
We're going to meet
all different kinds of gods out here.
[breathing heavily]
Huh?
[screams]
I'm on fire! Put me out, put me out!
[Shiro groans]
-[Kanna groans]
-[cat god meows]
Oh, boy.
EBARA SEVEN FORTUNATE GODS
RITUAL OF PURIFICATION
RUB THE WHITE SERPENT
[snake god hisses]
[hissing softly]
-[hisses]
-[screams]
[moans]
[sighs]
KO SHRINE
STORK SHRINE
Whoa!
Um… Whoa!
Wait! Hey, wait!
Uh, please stop. Please stop.
[grunts, groans]
[groans]
[Shiro] Are you doing all right?
Yep. I'm totally fine.
[Shiro]
You're lying. You're not fine at all.
[Kanna] Of course I'm not. I'm tired.
We've been running around all day.
[Shiro] Wow. You think you can get
to Izumo with that attitude?
It's only been ten minutes.
Oh, you can't use human time
like it counts.
Some idaten. I was expecting more.
I'm still only in sixth grade.
[Shiro sighs]
Then I guess we can set up camp
under that bridge over there.
Huh? Yes! Sleepy time!
DON'T GET IN AN ACCIDENT.
YOUR FAMILY IS WAITING FOR YOU!
Kanna River, huh?
It's even spelled the same as my name.
KANNA RIVER
And you're Kanna 'cause you were born
in Kanna month, right?
[Kanna] Yep. You got it.
Pretty boring way to come up with a name
if you ask me.
Aw. You think so? I kinda like it.
[sighs]
I'm not gonna be able to sleep
with all this stupid light.
[Shiro] Sorry. That can't be helped.
The sun moves just as slowly
as everything else.
Hmm?
[snoring]
And she's out.
[groans]
[grunts] Hey, Shiro.
[Shiro] You overslept.
[yawns] Good morning.
Not to nag but it does waste time.
Huh. Why am I not sleepy?
Maybe another power of the amulet?
Oh. That's cool.
Where's the gourd?
Huh?
-Under the blanket.
-[grunts]
-Uh, what the heck was that?
-Him again.
[chuckles]
Stop it, demon! Give that back now.
It's really important to us. So, please?
Blah. Not on your life.
I said she was gonna make a mess of things
sooner or later and I was right.
She's a mere human, and a kid to boot.
Yeah, but aren't you a kid too?
Tell you what. I'll give it back to you
if you could beat me in a footrace.
A footrace?
[Shiro] Do you remember what I told you
about the demons?
What, that they have a grudge
against the idaten?
That's right. These challenges
have kind of become their thing.
How dare you speak so flippantly
of our history, servant!
[growls]
My ancestors were extremely
fast-running demons called sokushikki.
After years of trying they finally
reclaimed the bones of the Buddha.
But then your ancestors the idaten
came after them.
My ancestors were captured
and their status as gods
was stolen from them.
Reclaimed the bones, huh?
That's a funny way to say you stole 'em.
You know nothing about us.
Anyway, that's the basic story
behind their grudge.
And since then they've tried to take
the idaten role for themselves
by challenging the current one
whenever they can.
That makes sense.
So, are we doing this?
No. We don't have time.
He's right.
I'm probably not fast enough anyway.
-And I don't feel like--
-[Yasha] Fine.
I guess you don't want this back then.
Uh…
[both sigh]
[Yasha] All right.
We sprint to the rabbit
and whoever gets there first wins.
[Shiro] Are you ready, Kanna?
Runners, on your mark, get set…
go!
[chuckles]
Oh.
Yes!
[grunts] Finally.
There! How does that feel,
child who wishes to be idaten? Uh--
-[exhales]
-Good job, Yasha. What a race.
I guess that settles
your family's resentment.
And since you're satisfied now you don't
really need that gourd anymore, right?
Now wait just a second, you.
Huh?
Honestly, you'll never make it
to Izumo running like that.
Oh, we'll be fine.
You're just too fast to beat in a sprint.
Uh, well, you know--
-Wait. Don't flatter me!
-Huh?
Listen up. I beat you fair and square,
so now the gourd and the amulet are mine!
Nope, not a chance.
I took up your challenge.
What more do you want?
Yayoi was ten times faster.
I knew it.
You did know my mom.
What if I did? What do you care?
I want you to tell me about her.
Everything.
For starters she wasn't a fake like you.
She was without a doubt a real idaten.
She always ran so beautifully.
I loved watching her.
I know, Hey, rabbit servant.
You're taking me with you now.
Uh, why would we do that?
I have to beat her in Izumo
in front of the gods themselves.
Wait. I don't get it.
When we get there I'll beat you again
and they'll all see it.
Then I become the idaten,
and my family's godhood
will finally be restored.
No way. That's not happening.
Shiro, tell him that's not gonna happen.
Actually it might not be a bad idea.
-You can't be serious.
-No. I think I am.
I mean, you were definitely running faster
against Yasha just now
than you have been alone so far.
Was I really?
We might make better time if you have
some competition on the road.
[Yasha] Then it's decided.
Time to run, idat--
Uh… [clears throat] …human.
[stammers, groans]
CENTRAL MOUNTAIN ROUTE
[no audible dialogue]
-[tapping glass]
-[Yayoi] Kanna. Time to wake up.
Come on. It's morning, Kanna.
[Kanna groans]
Three, two, one,
one-half, three-sevenths.
Good morning!
Mom! It's so bright!
[laughing]
[all] Thank you for this meal.
[no audible dialogue]
[panting]
Mmm?
[Kanna] Shiro, wake up.
Hang on just a second.
-I'm about to beat the turtle.
-Hey! I said wake up.
Mm. What's the matter?
We haven't slept very long at all.
We need to go.
We're running out of time, right?
-Come on.
-What? Kanna, wait.
What's gotten into you?
[gasps] Huh?
[gasps]
What's wrong?
It felt like someone was watching us.
Hmm?
Well, there are no people around
and I don't sense any gods either.
[breathing heavily]
This is Suwa Taisha shrine?
[Shiro] Yep.
And the god we're about to meet
is the child of the great Sir Okuninushi,
who's the most powerful
of all the gods in Izumo.
That means the chiso we receive here
is especially important,
-so make sure you're extra gracious.
-You got it.
SUWA SHRINE
Hello? Is there anyone here?
This god is pretty big,
so he might be kind of far back.
Then what do I do?
Just say your name as loud as you can
towards the back of the shrine.
God of Suwa, my name is Kanna.
Are you there?
If that's the best you got
then we're gonna be here for a while.
-Be louder.
-[breathes deeply]
God of Suwa, I am Kanna!
Even louder still!
Try to make your voice raise like Suwa.
[breathes deeply]
[loudly] God of Suwa, I have arrived!
My name is Kanna!
[rumbling]
-[gasps] An earthquake?
-[Shiro groans]
[gasping]
[growls]
Is this a dream?
[roars]
-[wind gusts]
-[screams]
Mmm.
Who has dared to awaken me?
The small human?
What is it you want?
It's a great honor to meet you,
sir dragon god of Suwa.
We've arrived to humbly receive
the chiso for Izumo.
Oh? I see.
Then you are the white rabbit of Inaba,
yes?
Then that girl with you
must be the idaten.
[Shiro] Yes, sir.
Hurry, introduce yourself.
[Kanna] Uh, right.
My name is Kanna Hayama.
It's a pleasure to meet you.
Interesting.
I was starting to think
no one would come this year.
And we apologize for our tardiness.
We had just a few things to settle
before we could set out here.
But we'll make it on time
if we may accept your chiso.
-[dragon god] You may not.
-Huh?
You are not worthy.
Huh?
So we can't have the chiso at all?
Why not? Is it because we got here late?
Human, do you truly think you have
what it takes to become an idaten?
-Huh?
-Of course she does.
Just look at the amulet
she wears on her wrist.
Hmm?
[gulps] Uh, I'm sorry, sir.
I shouldn't have interrupted.
Dumb rabbit. Don't talk back to a god.
From here on,
the road to Izumo
is far more harsh and merciless.
Are you prepared to overcome that
to fulfill your mission?
Yes. Of course I am.
[dragon god scoffs]
The smell of lies.
Ah. You're hiding something, aren't you?
Sir dragon god, I'm begging you,
give us the chiso.
I swear I'll make it to Izumo.
I have to.
Hmm.
[dragon god roars]
[rumbling]
[whimpers, gasps]
[dragon god] Small human,
if you insist on traveling to Izumo
even now,
then let us test your resolve.
Cast your eyes upon this shrine
in the sky.
There the chiso is ready and waiting.
You may take it if you are able to
navigate the perilous path to reach it.
I implore you to reconsider, sir.
This is a trial for gods.
Kanna may be a descendant,
but a child can't be expected
to complete this task!
Oh. Shiro.
Then I guess this is my time to shine.
I wish you would stop butting in.
Maybe if she weren't such
a little tenderfoot,
then I might not have to.
If I weren't a what?
Sir dragon god,
I propose that whomever of us
passes your test first receives the chiso
and thereby officially becomes
the next idaten.
Huh?
A demon god's descendant.
So you desire to accept that role?
[Kanna] Hey, wait a second.
For what purpose?
Do not dismiss the demon boy's proposal
so quickly.
If your resolve is true
then race with all your might and win.
[groans]
All right then.
Let's do this. [grunts]
-Kanna!
-[gasps, grunts]
[both grunt]
-[groans]
-Be careful!
[breathes heavily]
Oh, I can't watch anymore.
[Kanna] I'm going to see my mom again
no matter what!
Hmm.
So close.
[wind whistling]
-[Yasha] Comin' through.
-Huh?
I've actually trained
for things like this, unlike you.
[grunting]
-[screams]
-Yasha!
[wind gusting]
[gasps]
The path.
Go. Hurry!
Or you'll lose your chance at the chiso!
Yeah, but…
[grunts]
[Shiro] Kanna, go!
[Yasha grunts]
Huh?
Get up here! Hurry!
[straining]
What are you helping me for?
[gasps] We'll talk later.
-[gasps]
-Hey, watch it!
Kanna!
Sorry, Mom.
Huh?
[roaring]
Look at that. It's beautiful.
So you failed my test.
I know.
But I have a question for you,
small human.
Huh?
For what reason do you travel to Izumo?
To deliver the chiso.
[grunts]
I mean your true reason, human.
My true reason.
I want to see my mom again, sir.
[dragon god] And you believe
you will meet her there?
[Kanna] Yes.
[dragon god] Then why did you choose
to save the demon's life?
Because, if I can help it,
I don't want anyone to die in front of me.
Not ever again.
[sighs, sobs]
I understand.
-Huh?
-Then I shall entrust you with the chiso.
What? But I thought…
I am the child of the great Okuninushi.
However, an ancient oath
binds me to this land.
And since it was made…
OKUNINUSHI SHRINE
…I have not seen my parent deity.
Hmm.
I understand the painful feeling
of knowing you will never see
a parent again.
[sobbing]
[sniffles, cries]
Hold on to the ways
you can still connect with her.
Take great care to reach Izumo
before the time of matchmaking.
Yes, sir.
[Shiro] Hey!
Are you okay, Kanna?
[gasps]
-Hey, Shiro.
-[dragon god] Idaten.
Please take this. [exhales]
Is this…
This land's chiso.
Thank you for everything, sir dragon god.
Now go.
You must not be late to the festival.
If I don't make it all the way there
on time, what happens then?
The gods will no longer be in Izumo.
They will have already returned
to their own shrines.
That means…
That Kamiari month
will become Kanna month there too.
Oh.
The matchmaking conference
for the next year will not occur,
and that could very well bring chaos
to the whole island.
-[shudders]
-[explosion]
-[gasps]
-[Shiro] Kanna!
On, idaten. Hurry!
[Shiro] You really scared me back there.
I thought my heart
was gonna give out or something.
[Kanna]
I'm sorry, but everything is okay now.
[chuckles]
[Yasha] Hey, human!
[gasps] You came back.
I want to know why you saved me.
What do you mean why?
I'm from a family that resents the idaten.
Not to mention I'm actively trying
to steal that title from you.
Well, I don't really know.
-I just…
-Yeah?
I guess that I thought
it would be harder to run
if you weren't there to run with me.
I suddenly realized how much fun I had
running here together.
See you later.
You are such a blockhead!
-Huh?
If you keep moving at a snail's pace
you two will never make it
to the festival on time.
So listen up. I'm gonna teach you
how to run properly. You got it?
-Huh?
-What do you mean by that?
What I mean is that I will charitably
take it upon myself
to teach you the correct way to run
while we head to Izumo together.
[gasps]
-Oh, yes!
-What?
I had a feeling
we wouldn't part ways so soon.
Well, better get moving then.
The sun's already beginning to set.
[Kanna] Yeah, come on. Let's go!
[Yasha] Hey, hey, hey! Don't drag me!
[dust swells]
Watch and learn. [scoffs]
[groans]
Hmm?
SUGA SHRINE
-[Kanna, Shiro screaming]
-[rumbling]
Huh?
[screaming]
[exhales]
[giggling]
CHIE NO YU HOT SPRING
[sighs]
[gasps]
Enough already. We gotta go.
[grunts] Come on!
[chuckles]
[man laughs]
Sounds like you've had
quite the journey so far.
[Shiro] It's been a challenge
but certainly a rewarding one.
I must say, I didn't expect
such a small child to be the idaten.
Think you'll be able to make it in time?
Course we will.
You can count on Kanna no matter what.
-Huh?
-He's right.
Our idaten's got this in the gourd.
[chuckles]
In that case I won't keep you waiting.
The final chiso is
an extra special blessing…
[grunts] …of good omen!
[gasps]
Whoa! [laughs]
-Thank you very much, sir.
-Thank you.
And that's the last of the chiso!
-Is it really?
-You heard him.
Remember, none of us
need carry our burdens alone.
Take care of each other out on the road.
Yes, sir.
-[Yasha] All right. Onward.
-[Shiro] Yep.
Can't let all this delicious chiso
go to waste.
[Shiro] Izumo isn't far off now.
We should rest a little
before we make our final push.
[Kanna] Can we?
[Shiro] Oh, yeah. We still have a bit
before the festival's supposed to start.
[Kanna] Wow.
I've never seen the stars like this.
Pretty.
Hmm?
[Kanna] I'm glad I came.
But…
I can't believe it's almost over.
Yasha, are you awake?
[Yasha] Well, I'm not asleep.
Thank you for earlier.
[Yasha] What?
[Kanna] For what you said to Sir Ebisu.
[Yasha] What did I say?
You told him that you can count on me.
That made me happy.
And I guess that means
you changed your mind about me
at some point during this trip, huh?
[Yasha] I guess.
You started to remind me of Yayoi.
What do you mean by that?
You're just similar.
You both hate losing,
and you hate to give up.
No, we're nothing alike.
Hmm?
[Kanna]
I've always wanted to be like my mom.
I wanted to run like she could.
But I…
[Yasha] You'll get there.
You're still just a kid.
[Kanna] That's not it.
If I had been able to run faster,
she might not have…
[Yasha] Not have what?
It's my fault.
My mom died because of me.
-[Shiro moans]
-[Kanna] When all of this started,
I did want to see her again.
But part of me was afraid to.
And then, when I started to understand
her responsibility as idaten,
I wanted to do my best to fill her shoes.
[Yasha breathes deeply, sighs]
I thought if I made it to the end,
she'd want to see me too.
[young Kanna breaking heavily]
[Kanna] Mom and I used to run together
all the time.
Oh, wow!
What are you doing way back there?
You're too far ahead of me!
[Kanna] It was my favorite thing
in the world.
I always looked up to her.
And I wanted to prove
that I could run just like her.
But…
[glass breaks]
Hmm?
[gasps]
Mom?
-[breathing heavily]
-What happened? Are you okay?
I'll go get Dad.
Huh?
[Yayoi] I'm fine.
Seriously.
I just got a little dizzy.
Mom, you don't have to come
to the marathon tomorrow.
Oh, don't be silly, Kanna.
I wouldn't miss it for the world.
You know that.
Now then, let's get you back in bed
so you can rest.
Big day tomorrow.
Mmm.
SCHOOL MARATHON
[Kanna] And I knew.
I knew that my mom was sick.
But I really thought if I did my best…
[crowd cheering]
…it would give her the strength
to get better.
-[breathing heavily]
-[Yayoi] Kanna!
You can do it!
-[grunts]
-[Kanna] She was there for me
even though she wasn't feeling well.
But I couldn't come through for her.
[whimpers, sobs]
HONORABLE MENTION - MARATHON
[sobs, grunts]
[heartbeat thumping]
[heartbeat stops]
[Kanna] Mom?
This is wrong.
Mom?
[woman] Kanna is such a brave girl.
She didn't cry at all.
They grow up so fast, don't they?
I heard her mother's doctor
told her to stay home and rest.
But she went to watch the marathon anyway.
She was outdoors in this weather?
What on earth would possess her
to do a thing like that?
-[grunts]
-Stop talking about her like that!
You don't know anything!
[rain pattering]
USHIJIMA SHRINE
[panting]
[whimpering]
[crying]
[crying stops]
[Kanna]
I've always felt like it was my fault.
My mom died
because I wasn't strong enough.
So when you get to see her again,
what will you do?
I think I'm gonna tell her.
That you're sorry
you couldn't be of more help?
Yeah. That too, I guess.
But mostly
that I wanna quit running.
Huh?
Yeah, I know.
But she had all the talent for it.
I don't. And I've always known that,
but I never said it.
Plus I always lose
and it's not even fun anymore.
So, you know, I'd like a chance
to finally tell her the truth.
Come clean and all.
Running just isn't for me.
I guess the gods would say
it's not my fate.
-Are you crazy?
-Huh?
You want to quit running? Yeah, right.
I don't buy it for a second.
Is that really what your heart says?
You've worked so hard and gone through
so much and run all this way.
Look around you.
You're telling me you came all the way
out here just to give up?
Think.
Think about how you felt
running with Yayoi when you were little.
Are you saying those feelings don't matter
or that they were all fake?
I don't know.
Have you been running
since you were little too?
Huh? Yeah.
My parents were the chiefs of our people,
so I trained pretty much
every single day back then.
I barely remember doing anything else.
[Kanna] Oh, wow.
Remember what I said about my family?
Their status as gods was stripped away,
forgotten forever.
All that resentment.
And even with the constant challenges
against the idaten,
they've never won a single race
in all this time.
How crazy is that?
Of course now it's on my generation
to succeed.
But make no mistake, I will succeed.
-And then…
-And then what?
[stammers] It's nothing.
Never mind.
Just promise me when the trip's over
you and I will get to race again.
Yeah. You got it.
And when we do you had better be prepared
-'cause I am not gonna hold back.
-Well, then neither will I.
[scoffs] I'm shakin' over here,
you big blockhead.
[groans]
So, uh, where exactly
are you gonna see your mom?
Are we supposed to pass through
somewhere on the idaten mission
where you can talk to her?
You don't know? The gods will help.
Izumo connects to the afterlife.
Oh, really? Who told you that?
Shiro did.
-Hmm.
-What's wrong?
[Yasha] Nothing.
[Shiro moans]
Well, you must be excited.
-Hmm.
-Go to sleep.
If you're tired you'll be slow
and if you're slow we'll be late
and the mission's failed.
You're right.
-Good night, Yasha.
-Night-night.
[soft snoring]
Kanna.
Hmm?
-Kanna.
-[gasps]
Was that real?
Kanna.
Mom?
It's really you.
[gasping]
Mama. [sobs]
You're here.
[crying]
Cry as much as you need to. I missed you.
[Kanna continues crying]
[moans]
[Yasha] Hey! Wake up!
[grunts] Huh?
-What's the matter?
-Kanna's disappeared.
-She and the gourd are both missing.
-[gasps]
-Huh?
-What's wrong, sweetheart?
[Kanna]
Shiro and Yasha are probably worried.
It's all right, dear. You're with me.
You don't need to worry about them
anymore.
What about the mission?
Yes, you've been working very hard at it,
pushing your whole self for my sake.
What do you mean?
Oh, honey.
I know you just wanted to see me.
You were only acting like you wanted
to fulfill the idaten role.
-Weren't you?
-[gasps]
Deep down,
you've never cared about the mission.
Have you?
It's okay.
You don't have to pretend anymore.
[no audible dialogue]
You don't have to force yourself
to care about them, okay?
You just think about yourself now.
What you want.
And act on that.
It's easier that way.
[glass shatters]
-Then can I stop running?
-Of course you can.
If you don't want to run, don't run.
Don't feel pressured to keep going.
You can stop right here, right now,
and we can be together forever.
[Kanna] Really? You mean it?
[Yayoi] Yes.
You can have anything
as long as you can name it.
So tell me, Kanna,
what is it you truly want?
[Yasha] Come on!
Where the heck did she go?
[Shiro] I almost wonder
if someone tried to summon her.
But I didn't sense any gods around here
when we made camp.
[groans] Is there any chance
you might have overlooked one?
[Shiro] Zero.
I've learned about all the gods and know
exactly how to spot their presence.
So unless a new god was born recently
then I don't-- [gasps]
Kanna's been looking over her shoulder
ever since we left Tokyo.
She said she felt someone watching her.
And if that wasn't her imagination
after all, then--
She's in trouble.
-Let's go!
-[both grunt]
SCHOOL MARATHON
-[crowd cheering, shouting]
-[Kanna breathing heavily]
[Yayoi] Kanna.
You can do it.
[laughs]
-[laughs]
-[crowd applauds]
Mom, look. I did it.
I'm so proud of you, Kanna.
Here, take it.
It'll help make you better, right?
Yes, it will.
Thank you so much.
You've given me all the strength
I could ever need.
[sighs]
-[trophy thumps]
-[gasps]
[Kanna whimpers]
You have done such a great job.
I can feel the weight
of all your hard work.
[breathing heavily]
She's here.
[Shiro] Kanna!
Huh? [gasps]
-[distorted] Kanna!
-[shudders]
[distorted] Kanna, it's an illusion!
[Kanna] Who are you? Stay away!
[Shiro] It's no use!
She doesn't recognize us in there.
[Yasha grunts]
Kanna dear, do not let these fiends
manipulate you.
What are they?
[distorted] Remember,
you have an important mission, Kanna.
There's not much time left to complete it.
[distorted] He's right.
Think about all the gods
who had trusted you
with their sacred chiso for the feast.
Sir cow god, Sir Ebisu,
Sir dragon god too!
Be quiet!
[grunts, groans]
Do not interfere, demon boy.
This is the world
Kanna has chosen to create.
You are not worthy of being a part of it.
Leave us alone.
I finally get to be here
with my mom again.
We'll live here forever,
just the two of us.
[distorted] No.
Listen.
The Yayoi I know would never dare
to hold her daughter back like this,
no matter what.
And she would never ever do anything
to hurt her, you hear me?
Look around, Kanna.
You have to know she's a fake.
Yeah.
[scream echoes]
-[gasping]
-[Shiro] Kanna, are you okay?
[Shiro] I get it now.
That was a god impostor.
[Yasha] A god impostor?
[Shiro] Yeah. They're modern creations.
They long to become gods,
no matter the cost.
It's scary. Real gods are born
of true connections,
either between people
or people and nature.
But nowadays so many people
exclude or envy one another.
Those cold souls, with their feelings
of apathy, rage and despair
will grow over time into entities
that will stand alone
and stop at nothing to become
the new modern-day god of calamity.
There's no faith or goodness
or light inside them.
No joy or purpose.
They're just empty.
[Yasha] So what was this one trying to do?
[Shiro] Well, if it's been following Kanna
since we left Tokyo,
and it tried to steal the gourd
as soon as we received the last chiso…
[Yasha] I see.
It wanted to become a true god
by eating the offerings.
Probably. As far as evil schemes go
it isn't bad.
The chiso likely have some kind
of divine power within them.
Makes sense, I guess.
What a miserable creature.
But I'm glad we were able
to get rid of it.
I'm afraid it won't disappear that easy.
Look there.
If the human it attached to
carries the same feelings,
it can and will be reborn eventually.
It's up to the human
to stop that before it starts.
But the heart is a vulnerable thing,
so easier said than done.
Never mind that now though.
We're in a race against time.
Are you ready to go, Kanna?
The gourd is safe, so let's run.
What's wrong? You okay?
Where's my mom?
Where even am I gonna find her?
-What?
-Shiro.
Uh-- Mmm.
Yasha. One of you tell me the truth.
I knew it.
I'll never see her, will I?
Then I quit!
I don't care about Izumo anymore!
Kanna.
What about all the caretaking gods
who gave you their chiso already, huh?
I said I don't care. It's not important.
And besides, isn't this what you wanted
from the very beginning?
-You can take it yourself.
-[groans]
Kamiari month, the Kanna month.
Whatever a matchmaking conference is,
none of it means anything.
It has nothing to do with me,
so why bother?
I don't care about fate or destiny.
And those things don't matter
to begin with.
No one needs them to live.
This stupid festival isn't going to change
how anyone lives their lives, is it?
People are still gonna go to school,
study, play, watch TV, eat.
Whatever they want.
And what's wrong with that? Nothing.
Whatever is gonna happen is gonna happen.
So then why?
Why should I put in all this work
for a bunch of gods I know nothing about?
They've never helped me.
Tell me. Why?
-Why am I the one who has to--
-Enough!
What's with the complaining
all of a sudden?
Are you telling me you did all this
against your will?
You ran all this way
and hated every second of it?
Well, I don't buy it!
You're just like Yayoi, you love running!
-Don't act like you know me!
-[stammers]
You don't know the first thing
about either of us.
[gasps]
So please just leave me alone, okay?
There is no point to any of this,
meeting either of you.
I just want to go back home.
Thanks for saving me but, you know,
I really wanted to stay there with her
even if she was a fake.
If I can't have my mom,
then she was the next best thing.
And if she's gone too,
I have no reason to run anymore.
-Kanna!
-Hey!
What are you doing?
[rain pattering]
USHIJIMA SHRINE
[woman]
Now, returning once again to our map.
TYPHOON 22
The off-season Typhoon 22
has showed no signs of slowing…
ESTIMATED TO TOUCH THE LAND
AT 6 PM ON THE 24TH
…as it approaches the coast and
will likely make landfall in a few hours.
[groans] So she hasn't been there either?
I see. Thank you very much.
[sighs]
TYPHOON 22
I'm live in Kochi,
and it's coming down in sheets.
Kanna.
Where did you go?
I'm so sorry I failed you.
Just come home safe.
[Shiro] Kanna! Kanna!
We've gotta go!
Please!
-You gotta get up!
-[Yasha] It's no use. Let's go.
Without her?
Yeah. What else are we supposed to do?
She can't even see us now.
We pushed her too hard.
And she decided she didn't want
to be pushed anymore, so…
Let's go.
Without the power of the idaten
now we really have to hurry.
[Yasha grunts]
That lash from earlier, there's no way
you'll be able to run like that.
-Shut up!
-[whimpers]
I didn't ask you.
You let yourself get hurt saving a child
when it was bound to interfere
with your family's destiny.
You're no ordinary demon.
[Yasha] Don't tell me you forgot.
My ancestors were also gods.
-[wind gusting]
-[waves crashing]
Huh? Is it 7:00 yet?
I wonder if the festival started.
Uh… not that it matters now.
[grunts, groans]
[footsteps rapidly approaching]
[laughs]
[gasps, grunts]
[grunts]
[winces]
[sighs, whimpers]
-[Yayoi] Kanna?
-Huh?
[young Kanna] Mom.
Are you okay?
Yeah. I'm just fine, thanks.
Do you want to take a break?
No! I said I'm fine!
You're right. I'm sorry.
So, you can still run then?
Yeah.
We're still a long way off from the goal.
And besides,
I haven't given 100% yet today.
You really hate giving up.
[laughs] I wonder where you got that from.
[giggles]
Okay. Let's do this then.
Now, on your marks, get set--
-Go! [chuckles]
-Uh, Kanna.
Oh, come on. That all you got?
♪ Hurry, little monster
Catch me if you think you can ♪
[grunts]
[gasps]
[chuckles]
Look at you. Why the smile?
[giggles] It's because--
It's because… I love running.
[Yayoi chuckles]
Hold on to that feeling. Don't forget it.
Okay.
Oh, a sun shower?
Reminds me of when
you laugh so hard you cry.
[both laugh]
[sighs] That's right.
That's who I am.
I can't quit now.
I haven't given 100% yet today.
[breathes heavily]
I have to finish this.
I don't want to hate running.
I want to hold on to the things I love.
[voices chattering]
[thunder rumbles in the distance]
[Yasha grunts, groans]
Uh, Shiro, this is Inasa Beach, right?
Yeah, but it looks like the gods'
welcoming ceremony is already over.
Darn it. All that effort.
But if we can somehow deliver the chiso
directly to the shrine--
[gasps] Yasha!
Oh.
We have to stop this bleeding.
This is nothing. Don't worry.
[grunts]
What are you doing?
What do you think?
[yelps]
[Kanna breathing heavily]
-[Yasha] Kanna!
-[Shiro] Kanna!
Shiro. Yasha.
I'm here. Can you hear me?
Yeah.
We're standing right in front of you.
No use. She can't see us.
Then how can she hear us?
I'm not sure.
But suddenly I heard Shiro's bell
so I came running.
She tied the bracelet back together.
-[gasps]
-[chuckles]
It wasn't enough to be able
to see you again.
And I can't change
the flow of time anymore either,
but… [sighs]
[Shiro] But?
It's true that I still don't
really understand
anything about the idaten mission
or the festival,
and I don't know anything
about gods or matchmaking.
But I do know I want to run.
I want to give it my all
and make it to the finish line.
So please, if you will,
leave everything to me.
[panting]
I hate this! I can't believe I lost.
-[Yasha breathing heavily]
-[chuckles]
Don't get so down on yourself, Yasha.
It's no different than any other year.
-Yeah, rub it in.
-[laughs]
-[breathing heavily]
-Oh, yeah. You don't know yet.
-I have a daughter now.
-Huh?
Really? The idaten had a baby?
Yep. She's the sweetest little girl.
And I think-- I think you'd appreciate
what I mean to her.
So I'm obviously an idaten descendant
but I'm also plenty human.
Which means my daughter
has the blood of both in her veins too.
[father] Hello. Daddy's here.
[gasps] She held my finger.
Kanna.
[Yayoi] She and I may not have
all the powers of the gods,
but I want her to know that that won't
stop her from creating her own destiny.
She's her own girl and she'll become
whoever she chooses.
Oh! There you go.
Oh, look at you.
-Did you get that?
-[father] Yep. I got it.
Our little girl's all grown up now.
[chuckles] You're always so dramatic.
Okay.
And that's how I chose her name.
She's Kanna.
I get it now.
Sorry, Yayoi. You're right.
Maybe a human child is the perfect choice
for an idaten after all.
-[thunderclap]
-Hey!
There's not much time. Get moving.
Here I go.
-You can do it, Kanna!
-Run, Kanna!
And don't look back!
[woman singing in Japanese]
[gasps]
Sorry, kid. You'll have to turn back.
-We can't let anyone through this way.
-[breathes heavily] Come on.
[song continues]
Hey! Where are you--
[breathing heavily]
[panting]
[song continues]
IZUMO TAISHA SHRINE
[exhales]
[song continues]
[grunts]
[breathing heavily]
[song continues]
[song ends]
[panting]
Excuse me? Um, I finally made it.
Hello? Anyone here?
I have the chiso.
[whimpers]
I'm too late.
[sobs]
I'm sorry I wasn't fast enough.
[crying]
[gasps]
[Shiro] Kanna!
Congratulations! You made it.
But you're still a total blockhead
though-- [grunts]
[Kanna] Shiro. Yasha.
Are you guys okay?
Yep. Sir Okuninushi gave us both
his blessing to join you here.
[chuckles]
[laughs] Thank goodness.
[Yasha grunts]
I'm so happy.
[strained] Yeah, me too,
but I'm pretty out of place up here,
-so I might just--
-Aw. You know you love it.
-Huh?
-[Okuninushi clears throat]
Now then, child,
if you'll hand me the chiso.
Excellent.
May the Kamiari feast officially begin!
[voices chattering, laughing]
[laughing]
IZUMO TAISHA SHRINE
[Okuninushi] Idaten--
No, Kanna.
I must commend you.
That was quite a journey.
So please, feel free to rest
and recover here as long as you need.
Thank you very much,
but I should head home.
I'm sure my father is worried sick.
Sir Okuninushi, if I may,
I have a humble plea.
Shiro?
-What are you…
-[Shiro] Please.
With your incredible powers
of matchmaking,
I would like you to reunite Kanna
with her mother Yayoi.
[gasps]
[Shiro] It is not lost on me that
this may be a terribly intrusive request.
And I know the kingdom of gods
and the afterlife are different.
But Kanna fulfilled her duty
as a mere child
and deserves to be rewarded.
If I should be punished for asking
it will be well worth it.
So I implore you,
please grant Kanna's deepest wish, sir.
Oh, young one.
That is not something matchmaking can do.
It does not predetermine fate.
Nor can it undo
what has already come to pass.
What it does do
is create the ties
that bind people together.
After that, it is up to people themselves
to choose which threads they follow
and thereby which destinies they create.
It's okay, 'cause…
I did get to see her,
like you said I would.
This trip was our thread,
and I understand her better now.
And no matter what…
she's always with me.
[Shiro] And?
And I got to meet you two obviously.
-[laughing]
-[groans] Hey! That hurts!
-[Kanna] Yasha, are you crying?
-[Shiro] I think he's crying.
[Yasha] I am not crying!
[all laughing]
I'm heading out.
[chuckles]
GOOD MORNING! GOING FOR A RUN.
BREAKFAST IS IMPORTANT! - KANNA
[grunts, exhales]
All right, let's do this.
[Yasha] Seriously?
Her form is as pathetic as ever.
Don't forget you lost
to that pathetic form.
[growls] Say what?
I didn't lose.
I say the race is still on.
[song begins]
[wind gusts]
[chuckles]
[panting]
[woman singing in Japanese]
[song continues]
[song ends]